hi I'm Manny dela Cruz I have a 96 Saab
and I think the fuel pumps gone out on
it and the way that I know this is I
tried to start the car wouldn't start I
tested the relay and I tested the fuse I
did that by opening up the fuse box near
the kick panel on the left hand side and
then using a voltmeter to test the
voltage when I was turning over the car
you have to do this when the car is
turning over because that's when a
signal gets sent to the fuel pump if you
have voltage there that means both the
fuse in the relay are working correctly
so the next step is then to replace the
fuel pump I don't want to drop the fuel
tank that sounds like a giant pain in
the butt and there's an access port
underneath the rear seat of the Saab
again this is a Saab 900 turbo se 1996
and rather than drop the tank which is
full of gas right now I've opened up the
rear seat lifted them up and there's
actually a flap of carpet that you can
take a look at I'm gonna take you over
there what I'm going to do is I'm going
to widen that access port so I can get
the fuel pump out without dropping the
fuel tank now the tool that I'm going to
use is a nibbler we just got this at
Harbor Freight for like 20 bucks so
let's go take a look at that rear seat
okay so we're looking in the rear seat
of the Saab 900 and I folded the seats
up you could see that and that reveals
the carpet underneath the seats now
directly under this panel here is the
fuel tank for the Saab this is the flap
that I was telling you about and as you
can see there's some wires poking out
and I pulled them out these are for the
I don't know which one is which but for
the fuel pump and for the it's the relay
for the Center for the fuel gauge so
anyways if you look down and I can't see
if I can
they're the carry you can't really see
it anyways the fuel pump itself is not
directly underneath here the fuel pump
is actually right over here and so what
I'm gonna do let's get some focus so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to cut
some of this carpet away over here and
I'm going to use my handy dandy nibbler
to create another access port over here
and I can see the edge of what the the
fuel pump housing is so what I've done
is I grabbed a bowl and I'm going to put
it over here and I'm going to create a
nice neat hole with the carpet I'm not
going to totally cut it all out I'm just
going to cut a line here and then leave
it connected over here so I can fold the
whole mess back now I'm going to take
the nibbler and I'm gonna make a hole
and then that should get me access to
the fuel pump and then I can pull the
whole assembly out and replace my
Gilliam alright so first I'm going to
Center this up so that it looks pretty
good
looks pretty straight as you can see I'm
using a high-tech bull now I know that
there's nothing underneath this carpet
except steel because I looked under but
I'm gonna take this score it all the way
around all right
there you have it okay so now I've got
something I didn't anticipate some kind
of know what that is it's hard it's star
car-based well I'm gonna try using the
nibbler see if I can't get in here it's
not that we found was a tar-like
substance
you know anyways it's a very brittle
I used a utility knife to score the
edges and then I used a chisel and a
hammer to chip it away it took about
five minutes it's not that big of a deal
but you'll need to do that to clear a
path for your nibbler because the
nibbler will gum up if it's trying to
cut through toilet so I'm at the point
now or I'm gonna start nibbling let's
see if this see this works I guess it
goes without saying that you shouldn't
be using a tool like a grinder because
that throws sparks everywhere
all right as you can see I have removed
the piece of steel that separates they
can later write in it they're actually
like that that separates this floor pan
from to the top of the fuel pump and the
next step is to remove the fuel pump got
to figure out how to do that there was a
weird plastic cover very thin almost
disposable I destroyed it I don't
consider it important that reveals the
the end of the fuel pump assembly and I
got to figure out how to spin that
sucker